GALIANA's PENELOPE


As you certainly know, François Fillon the right-wing Republican Party front runner in the French presidential elections, is said to have paid his Welsh native wife Penelope half a million € over ten years with funds made available to him as an MP. The satirical paper "Canard enchaîné" which exposed the case was allegedly unable to find witnesses to her work. 
In addition Penelope was, no less allegedly, paid 5,000 €  a month between May 2012 and December 2013 by the Periodical "Revue des Deux Mondes", owned by a friend of her husband's, despite the fact that the director of the monthly never met her and never saw her on the premises of the review. Fillon told on a private TV channel that his wife who raised their five children was not involved at all in politics. Penelope told a British paper that she preferred always staying at their chateau near Le Mans with her children and five horses than in busy Paris. 
Thanks to this rumored scandal, the Presidential contest has now become highly unpredictable.
The most likely opposing candidates to Fillon are the far right candidate Marine Le Pen and Centrist Manuel Macron, plus many others, 

My far-seeing brother, Michel Galiana, had addressed an earlier Penelope's dilemma in a poem, the "Weaver of fate", dated 1991, but he evidently looked at things from a thoroughly different point of view: 
Like this earlier Penelope who undid her weaving each night, the old poet when looking back on his life utterly dedicated to his art, was proud of its being not marred with any kind of financial or mundane achievement!

 LA TISSEUSE DE DESTIN (*)
      
L'appel, le silence ou le sommeil n'ont de seuil
Et tu ne trouveras où cesse le pas
Ni vol, ni chute. Le chant d'un enfant si bas,
Qu'il semble sourdre de la source de ton orgueil.

Les sentiers sont des lueurs, non des passages.
Si tu bois à la fontaine de l'âge,
Une voix te dira ta chanson secrète,
Mais la bouche sera  de nuit, de deuil.

Tisseuse têtue - et fil à fil s'immobilise
L'astre qui vibre et que déserte le guetteur.
Suis-je légende tapie ou plainte grise?
Je montrerai quand m'assignera le juge
Ce vide frangé où triomphe mon labeur.

THE WEAVER OF FATE (*) 
      
No threshold where silence or sleep becomes a call
Where walk comes to an end, or was it flight or fall?
Where you barely perceive the singing of a child,
So low! It seems to spring from the source of your pride.
 
Paths are gleams, they are not the way out of your cage.
If you manage to drink from the fountain of age,
A voice may sing to you your song, secret and low,
But the uttering mouth will be of night, of woe.
 
A steady weaver, I control thread after thread,
The swinging star that sends the sentinel away.
Am I a lurking tale, do I serve gloomy grudge?
I'll display to the view of the summoning judge
This frayed void over which my labour could hold sway!


(*) From "The Dream in the Orchard", Borgo Press, 2007 (Amazon.com)

C.S.

  